# Ottetto
After an initial stimulus, eight computational agents influence each other in eight solos, 28 duets, 56 trios, 70 quartets, 56 quintets, 28 sextets, eight septets, and one octet. Ottetto results from the author’s own software, written using the Dicy2 library (Nika, J., Muller, A., Borg, J., Ostrowski, M., & Assayag, G. Dicy2 for Max. IRCAM, 2022) https://forum.ircam.fr/projects/detail/dicy2/. It implements eight computational improvisation agents, whose base material consists of a series of recordings made by a human performer. This application responds with transformations of various moments selected through mimetic processes based on the material fed into it during live performance.

In this way, the performer’s response becomes a reaction to the modification of their own recent past—something humans do habitually, as Gabriel García Márquez reminds us in Vivirla para Contarla (2002): “Life is not what one lived, but what one remembers and how one remembers it in order to tell it.” Ottetto is one of its possible allegories. If in daily life our actions and decisions are responses to how we reinterpret our past, here, the computational agents and the guitarist collaborate in a similar process mediated by algorithms. This adds a layer of meaning where the agents act as representations of digital memory, constantly reinterpreting and transforming the previous material that the guitarist—a “conscious human being”—generated by creatively responding to close the loop. If they succeeded, or if, on the contrary, that very gesture set them on an infinite spiral, remains open. As Montale wrote in I miraggi (1971), “il tempo si ravvolge in sé stesso” (“time coils back on itself”). Ottetto is memory and narration, where the human and the artificial intertwine in a philosophical exploration rendered into music.

Quick Start

This application is a Max document (Cycling74.com)
	1.	Start by clearing (sending the ‘clear’ message) and then loading a folder of files by dragging it onto the umenu attached to each agent. The folder can contain any PCM audio files. Make sure the folder is located in a path known to Max and contains only the files you wish to improvise with.
	2.	Activate the server and the agents by pressing [initialize].
	3.	Adjust the audio input for channel 1 and its reverb. This is the input for the human performer.
	4.	If you want some assistance with your improvisation, you can load an initial sound into the [[playlist~]] object connected to [[send~ inptspf2]].
	5.	Adjust the reverb amount for each agent.
	6.	Configure the influence matrix as you like. This allows you to decide which agents influence each other.
	7.	To configure the audio output across multiple channels, you can open [[p “salidas de los agentes a ambisonics”]]. There are two options: 2D and 3D. These can be activated using the messages [;en3D bang] and [;en2D bang].
	8.	Press the [inicioautomatico] message and start playing.

